# Reading 1 - The Mongol Conquests
Description: Thomas Barfield's 1989 analysis in a book
Type: Secondary
- Scholarly Argument - The rule and mismanagement of the Mongol Empire, because they were rulers "by default rather than by design"
### 1 - What “outer frontier strategy” meant for aggressive nomadic tribes tactically and why the Mongols could not capitalize on this  
- Outer Frontier Strategy - Yoink Agricultural and "Settler Type Materials"
	- Nomads in China typically don't want to "conquer" because they don't want to stay. Rather prefer to use tactical superiority and "Yoink and dip strategy" to retreat back to steppe
	- They also usually target smaller, more subservient settlements. Jurchen was not small, nor subservient. Held out (Moving of capital to create defensive, large walls and high troop numbers)
- Chinggis Khan's use of this largely ineffective against the growing settling "empires" of Chin Dynasty, Mongols had to wage war to get anything. 
	- Resulted in heavy losses in people, materials, etc. Pyrrhic Victory and low return on investment. 
	- Same application to Tangut state
### 2 - The Mongols under Chinggis khan were conquerors by circumstance rather than by design
- After high losses, melding of ideas of "Return to the Steppe, wreak havoc on the useless people" and "Hold this big empire, become tax collectors" did not mix well.
	- Policy on taxes sucked, and less people to tax due to mass migration and deaths as seen by census drop from 50 mil to +/-8 mil
- Mismanagement and lack of understanding on where resources came from meant bad policies left and right
	- Ogodei's idea to "revert the farmland to pasture" contered because who tf is gonna make the resources to extract if the land and farmers are killed. 

# Reading 2 - Letter to Pope Innocent IV
Description: Kuyuk Khan's 1246 letter to the Pope during his short rule
Type: Primary
- Scholarly Argument not present
### 1 - We are so friggin insulted, yo
*My name is Skylar White, yo*
- Previous letter written by Pope for "Peace and Friendship" rejected
	- Follows that in their eyes, they're already conquering Europe. The pope has nothing to give
- Disagreement with Pope's "Grace" idea, high and mighty like.
	- Mongols got ego, man. But also speaks to this idea that the "Grace of the Pope" system is a theological exertion of power. Links back to the "European exceptionalism idea"
### 2 - Give us tribute, yo
*You could send us some friggin packets, yo*
- Asks for tribute so that they will not wage war upon Europe
	- They probably could have.

# Reading 3 - Muslims in the Early Yuan Dynasty
Description: Morris Rossabi's analysis and summarization of the Mongol's "Yuan Dynasty" over China, with a focus on Muslim contributions and subsequent "sacking" as a power check and power move. 
Type: Secondary
- Scholarly Argument
	- 
### 1 - Muslims were a heavy, possibly controversially effective, workforce in the taxation system
- Controversial choice of Khubilai to employ Ahmad as finance minister. Lil bro taxed heavy on the Chinitos and Chinitas using land tax, state monopolization on copper tools, tea, liquor, vinegar, gold, silver. Also a guy who supposedly participated in nepotism, political subterfuge, etc. 
	- But, all we have are the opposition's perspective, so difficult to know to what extent he was actually bad. After his assassination, hella obvious planting of diamond in his quarters. 
	- Secondary perspective that this characterization was for mongol benefit. "Hey this dude was the source of your struggle and we got rid of him (ignore we hired him)"
- Ahmad also contributed in importing beasts of burden to form a "Postal System" across China, allowing for an "Export economy" especially and notably in silks, ceramics and spices. Importing traders needed to convert to cash first, which was hella cash muns, allowing for enough cash influx to start loans. 
	- Analysis and connection to theme
### 2 - Muslims had heavy contributions to culture and leadership
- Prime example Saiyid - Assisted in the military encroachment into Yunnan
	- Despite this, did not push Islam into yunna, instead pushing chinese cultures. 
	- Executed for allegedly stealing 130k ting of money

### 3 - Push of anti-muslim regulation marked decline of cooperation
- Aftereffects of Ahmad's ruthless policies meant Buddhists, Confucians, Chinese, all advised Kublai to rid of him
	- Refusal to eat non muslim prepared meat at Kublai's banquet started chain reaction of laws against circumcision, etc.
- Despite this and temporary anti-muslim trades, muslims returned
	- Exposing pride/prejudice in system?

# Reading 4 - The Overall Survey of the Oceans Shores
Description: What is it?
Type: Primary or Secondary?
- Scholarly Argument present?
### 1 - Voyages were for prestige mainly
- One ship circumnavigated the globe, another visited Eastof North America. Allegedly
- In an area of Thailand, Zheng He was remembered as a god. 

# Reading 5 - Ming Maritime Expeditions
Description: Article exploring Cheng He's maritime expeditions
Type: Secondary
- Scholarly Argument: 
### 1 - Cheng He was the person for the job
- Accomplished Eunuch Muslim, supposedly "Seveb feet tall with a five foot waist"
### 2 - Treasure Voyage accounts
- First in 1405
- Second into Indian Ocean
- Third into Malabar coasts of India, with visits around
- Fourth into far and deep territory, I.E. Maldives, Hormuz, Aden, etc
- More voyages happened, and they were cool I guess
	- Signs of a deeper understanding and exploration of the isles
### 3 - Chu Ti's death = Decline of expeditions
- Critics of expedition appealed to Chu Kao-chih to stop the expeditions. 
- Slowly fizzled out after this.

# Reading 6 - Inscriptions to the Goddess
Description: Compilation of primary sources about the accounts of the Celestial Spouse 
By Zheng He - Castrate Muslin Expeditioneer , Lecture 4
Type: Primary or Secondary?
- Scholarly Argument present?
### 1 - Emperor's Reliance on Zheng He
- Ordered to use hundreds of ships to transport wealth around to the isles
	- Links to that showboat nature but also display of firepower
- Also dealt a lot with pirates
	- Protects Emperor Yongle's Trade Interests

# Reading 7 - The Cities of Zanj and The Indian Ocean Trade
Description: Choice Primary accounts from neighboring tribes about the nature of Zanj and the trades with east african tribes
Type: Primary
### 1 - The Cities of Zanj were known and explored already
- From Al-Idrisi's accounts "These Foreigners sell their goods there, and buy the produce of the country." and further "There is a great trade in it, and each year various products and goods are brought for exchange and consumption"
	- Clearly east Africa was existing and thriving, not stagnant as Eurocentric views would have it.
- Accounts from Pi-p'alo "The other products are ambergris, big elephants tisks and big rhinoceros horns."
	- Not only were they trading but they also had specialized and exotic products for trtade. 

# Reading 8 - Mis.

# 9 - The Land of Ghana
- Part of East Africa
Description: Accounts of the people and power of East Ghana
Type: Primary
### 1 - Ghana has a mix of cultures
- "The king's intepreters, the official in charge of his treasury, and the majority of his ministers are Muslims"
- Their religion is paganism and the worship of idols.
### 2 - Gold is Important to them
- "The nuggets found in all the mines of his country are reserved for the king, only this gold dust being left for the people"

# 10 - Travels in Mali
- Description: Account of Ibn Battuta's trade trip into mali for sudanese gold
Type: Primary
### 1 - The Country is Salt Heavy
- "They dig for the salt, and find it in thick slabs, lying one on top of the other. "
- "They cut it up into pieces and buy and sell with it"
### 2 - Family and Society is weird
- "A person's heirs are his sisters sons"
- King aura farms by remarking on his achievements and dudes dry fire bows to say they agree

# 11 - Eurasian Connections before Europe Expansion
Author: Ibn Fadlallah al-Umari

Time/Place: 11th century (at the height of the Ghana empire before its disintegration in the 13th century)

Primary source

Aim: To examine Abu Ubayadallah al-Bakri account on Ghana to understand West African state formation, trade networks, and cultural exchange

Approach: It focuses on the economic foundations of Ghana, the political structures and royal authority. The religious dynamics and the introduction of islam. It also focuses on the trans-saharan trade networks and how religious conversions often accompanied trade relationships. Shows the states that existed in West Africa before Europeans came in.

## 1 - Spread of Islam into west africa. 
- Since it is written by someone who never visited the region it is considered to be a crucial primary source that draws on first-hand reports and writings. 
- It also shows how Ghana was able to emerge as a powerful trading state as a result of its location and how it was near gold-producing regions in the south.
	- Musa's predecessor went off to follow some ships that supposedly never came back, and they also never came back

# 12 - Ottoman Inter-Communal Relations
- **The Ottoman empire is successful and, in its early years, was highly religiously tolerant and has systems in place to create a power structure that allows anyone with merit to have power, regardless of prior status.**

Author: Donald Quataert

Time/Place: Ottoman empire (centered in Turkey), between 1500 and 1922 

Secondary source 

1 - communal relstions
- Despite idea of arguing, ottoman inter communal was fine
	- prevailing stereotypes skew the truth of the matter
- Dispels assumption aproachh
	- Analyzes anti-ottoman writing from Khrisho Botev
		- Notes Bulgarian conflict of interest
	- Notes again another bulgarian christian that supports a peaceful coexistence
		- Even called "Good neighbosrs"
		- Welcome nature of  "You're not going anywhere... you'll stay with us"
	- Ottoman military duties a muslim "duty", excluding christians from argment
## 1 - That Jews, Christians, and Muslims all co-existed in the Ottoman empire and even helped each other out. 
- The empire was mainly under Muslim rule, but they allowed for jews and christians to live there. 
	- "In Khaskovo, our neighbors are Turks. They were good neighbors. They got on well together.... My mother was alone with four children. And the neighbors said "You're not going anywhere... you'll stay with is..." So mama stayed with the Turks.... What I'm trying to tell you is we lived well with these people.
	- Yet, in a real sense, the military obligation had become a muslim one. (Long explanation on how christians fled whne they were required service).. Thus, subjects understood that Muslims needed to fight but non muslims did not.
- Providing sanctuary and an escape in situations like underage marriage. Jews or Christians could go to Muslims and ask them to get out of having to go into an unwanted marriage due to muslim laws that required the women's permission for marriage.
	- Muslim courts often provided rights to Christains and Jews that were unavailable in their own courts.
	- Thus, persons who feared disinheritance or a smaller share in the will of a Christian or Jew placed themselves under Islamic law. 
	- Christian widows frequently registered in the Islamic courts because these provided a grater share to the wife of the deceased.


# 13 - The Lawgiver
Description: **Meant to highlight the strengths of the Ottoman Empire, and what makes them so successful in comparison to other systems (in this case European ones). The text reveals a sort of superiority, and is almost used as a form of intimidation.**
Type: Primary 
### 1 - Meritocratic structure 
- Ottomans value skill above all else
	- Janissary corps prime example
		- "It is by merit that men rise in the service, a system which ensures that posts should only be assigned to the competent"
		- "For they do not believe that high qualities are either natural or hereditary, nor do they think that they can be handed down from father to son"

# 14 - Sunni vs Shi'ite
Description: Letter from Ottoman ruler Salim I to Isma'li I telling h
Type: Primary 
### 1 - You're a fake and the Qu'ran says so
 - "The lord himself says in his holy book 'WE have not created the heavens and the earth in order to play a game"
	- Analysis and connection to theme
- "As to you, Amir Sma'il, such a recompense will not be your lot; because you have denied the sanctity of the divine laws"
	- Note that they are basically dissing each other based on the religion's "say so laws

# 15 - The Resurgence of the Persian Empire
Description: Secretary of Shah Abbas' Discourses
Type: Primary Source
- Scholarly Argument not present
### 1 - (Discourse 1) Shah Abbas concerned himself w/welfare & security of his people
- "He called for the principal highway robbers in each province to be identified, and he then set about eliminating this class of people"
	- Self explanatory, shows real hardwork and grassroots-like work ethic
	- Form of pardon even possible
- Reduced taxes on iraq flocks, waiving of divan levies for Shi'ites during Ramadan
### 2 - (Discourse 7) - Shah Abbas made good policy
- "He is very speedy in dispatchign business: When hedoes at the gate of his palace....he finishes off all the cases that are brought to him."
### 3 - Shah Abbas' Religion
- "I think no one knows what he believes: he does not observe the Muslim law in many things, nor is he a Christian. Six or seven years ago he displayed many signs of not being averse to our faith."
- Besides that he is well informed regarding the mysteries of our holy Faith and discourses on the mystery of the most holy Trinity.

# 16 - Shah Abbas the Great
Description: Selection of Discourses on Shah Abbas provided by his Secretatry
Type: Primary
### 1 - Shah Abbas cares for their subjects
- "He called for the principal highway robbers in each province to be identified, and he then set about eliminating the class of people

## 2 - Discourse 7 - Shah Abbas was good at policy making
- "Several thousand men were drafted into regiments of musketeers, too, were drafted all the riff-fall from every province"
- "If any merchant or traveler or resident were robbed, it was the duty of the governor to recover his money for him or replace it out ofhis own funds. "

## 3 - Shah treated servants well
- "As long as his servants are constant int heir loyalty, the royal favor is lavished upon them, nor is it withdrawn for any trifling offense committed out of ignorance or from negligence."
- "If any of his servants dies from natural causes or gives his life in battle... the Shah is generous in his treatment of their dependents. "

# 17 - Descriptions of India
Author: Abul Raihan al-Biruni
Description: al-Biruni's encyclopedic account of Indian civilization.
Type: Primary
Approach: 

The author lists a few ways that Hindus are different from Muslims. 

## 1- They differ in ‘everything which other nations have in common,’ including language. 

## 2 - They believe nothing that the Muslims believe religiously, making them ‘impure.’
- Anything touched by a foreigner is also considered impure. Unable to interact with Hindus at all
- "They are not allowed to receive anybody who does not belong to them... This, too, renders any connection with them quite impossible, and constitutes the widest gulf between us and them"

## Third, they are so different that Hindus ‘use their dress and customs to frighten their children.
- "And as to declare us to be devil's breed, and all pur doings as the very opposite of all that is good and proper."
- But, muslims also do that to the hindus. 

# 18 - The Development of Civilization
Description: A scholarly compilation of the events within the lens of analyzing the nom muslims and their effect on Muslim Society
Type: Primary or Secondary?
- Scholarly Argument present?
### 1 - The main way the Sultan got the hindus to obey was to tax them heavy
- "The hindu was to be so reduced as to be left unable to keep a horse to ride on, to carry arms, to wear fine clothes, or to enjoy any of the luxuries of life. 
	- First tax on land for growing, and a flat tax on pasture
- "Blows, confinement in the stocks, imprisonment and chains were all employed to force payment"
### 2 - Sultan Alau-d din was schewpid
- "He was a king who had no acquaintance with learning, and never associated with the learned. "
- "He never asked for legal opinions about political matters , and very few learned 

# 19 - Travels in Asia and Africa
Author: Ibn Battuta

Time/Place: 1325-1354, primarily Delhi, India

Primary or secondary source?: Primary

Aim: Catalogue of life in India, including the oppression of the Hindu people and the sultan’s kindness and cruelty.

Approach: Battuta records life in India through excerpts of its sultan (someone who he says is compassionate to the people, but also ‘all too ready to shed blood’), his experience getting there, and the stories he hears (such as one about the sultan exiling all Hindus and killing those who refused to make the 40 day journey to the Dawalt Abad, such as a blind Hindu man who was dragged behind a cart). He also mentions briefly witnessing sati and being attacked by infidels on his way into the city.

Summary/Main Ideas (“takeaways”): The Hindu people were violently oppressed by the sultan in Delhi, and sultan was simultaneously powerful, generous, and cruel

# 20 - Akbar and Religion
Author: Bada'Uni

Time/Place: 1558-1605, northern India

Primary or secondary source?: Primary

Aim: Akbar was interested in the beliefs of various faiths and invited high-ranking religious officials into his palace to talk to him about their beliefs and was overall, highly religiously tolerant (something one of his Muslim advisors/the author of this text disliked). 

Approach: Bada’Uni writes various stories about Akbar’s meetings with other groups from Jews, to Hindu brahmins, to Buddhist yogis, Hindu and Buddhist ascetics, even Fathers from Europe

Summary/Main Ideas (“takeaways”): Akbar was a religiously tolerant ruler of Northern India who made special efforts to include the previously oppressed Hindus